Intro/role
    I am currently working at Spectarium Games as a Technical Level Designer on the live service action RPG 'Myths'. A fast-paced, four-player co-op
    dungeon crawler where shifting ancient mythologies collide with dynamic, evolving boss encounters. Soft-launched in Early Access 2026.
Problems
	Art requirements - Long shadows, Soft edges, no visual seams between zones
	Scalability - both with creating content as well as delivery to players
	Workflow - When I joined the game was a singleplayer prototype which we needed to reconstruct with a live service operation in mind. It only had a single level that was made in one single piece, each enemy was hand placed.

Approach
	In short - Together with tech and enviornment art we decided for tile based system, our first biome was Norse and we had . Using these
	tiles we then assembled what we call zones, pieces of a dungeon which was later used to assemble the dungeons themselves. The positions
	and order of the zones were stored in a scriptable object which also contained biome information and weather effects. In depth
		Tiles
			Biome difference - When we first started building the game there was a high artistic standard to meet, showing off a prototype
			which couldn't scale meant we had to figure out how to convert that into a system that could. Norse was our first biome, since
			we couldn't have dynamic light due to performance reasons and at the same time we were unable to bake the lights into the zones
			since they needed to seamlessly stitch together and be __ and we decided to create quite large tiles in order to fit the shadows.
		Zones - The zones existed in different types with different functionality, start zones which were always void of enemies. Regular
		zones contained the bread and butter, and were the majority of the content players would run through. Exits were the end of the
		dungeon and generally contained some more challenging opponent. Scenario zones were events, cursed chests where you had to defeat
		waves of enemies, kill spawn points or do something in a limited time for additional rewards. Finally we had adapter zones were
		simply were a way of solving the issue of having different sized exits on some zones. It required us to set up some rules for each
		type of dungeon however, thematically if you had a Mayan themed dungeon you might want smaller paths that are side tunnels in a
		bigger structure and they need to feel different. So a adpater zone with south -> north pathway going from slim to a large exit
		might have a entrance that is small then the "normal" path would be blocked by rubble and instead go into a grander path where there
		the fake entrance to the zone is blocked by a closed gate but it continues in a grand manner that then lead into the next zone with
		a big entrance. [INSERT IMAGE HERE (img/work/Spectarium/AdapterZone.png)] 
		There were a few special zones as well, such as the archive (the players base) and the boss zones, these were for the most part not constructed out of tiles.
			Meshes - A zone had 3 meshes
				Visual - This is what the player saw, only lives on the client. [INSERT IMAGE HERE]
				Walkable mesh - Every piece of floor and pile of walkable decorations had this set up, it was simple the mesh used for player 
				placement in height (without it a player was always stuck at y=0). It only lived on the client. [INSERT IMAGE HERE]
				Navmesh - Was a custom flat mesh I created per zone (as our game as far as our server knew was 2D). [INSERT IMAGE HERE]
			Data objects - The data for each zone was stored in a scriptable object. 
				Enemies - Enemies could either be manually placed as forced spawns or using a dynamic spawn
				system, if the dynamic spawn system was used then it would place them anywhere on the navmesh where there was no dynamic
				spawn blocker placed. 
				Logic - We had default logic that always deployed on a zone, this was for the sake of having traps or
				damage zones that should always exist in a specific zone. There was additionally other layers of logic that could be
				enabled, these were described in scenario graphs and only one graph per zone could be active at a time. It was simple a node
				based object which referenced data fields in the zone (so the same scenario zone could be shared among several zones as long
				as the logic was the same).  
				Exits - Each zone also had the exits defined, this was used by the stitching alghoritm to piece the navmesh together at runtime.
		Dungeons - The dungeons were defined as scriptable data objects, if it was a regular dungeon or one containing a boss, it defined
		which zones, if any of the zones had scenarios, the position of them and the weather of the dungeon (which was just post processing
		effects). The idea in the future was to generate these on the fly since we had all the data required to do so.
			Assembly - The assembly process slowly improved, at first it had to be done by entering the the zones into a list and their x,
			y, z cordinates. I later made a small script that allowed me to visually drag them into place, which also helped to make sure
			they made sense thematically. The long term plan I created for the future assembly process for the project will be described in a later section.
		Biomes - Each biome in the game represented a real world mythology and on top of it we had a invented meta mythology (called "Watchers"). 
			Norse - This was our first biome, it was made complicated by being an exterior zone and art requirements that demanded long soft
			shadows while not baking per zone for issues laid out in a different section. In the end each the default tile was set up as
			10x10 units (meters) object but we had open grass tiles that were 5x5 to allow us more flexibility in how wide our zone walls
			were intended to be set up. We also had 20x10 and 20x20 tiles that helped us break up the rather easily seen patterns our tiles
			made. Due to the requirements we had decided to make the ground shadows part of the terrain shader, this meant the environment
			art team had to slice out two lines of verticies (start and end of shadow). As a result we had 4 versions of each tile depending
			on rotation. [INSERT IMAGE HERE - NorseTileShadow.png] The objects like additional rocks or trees also not part of the tile but objects placed on top, this meant that
			they had separate shadow objects that were on the ground. The different type of tiles we had were wall, innercorner,
			outercorner, diagonal and open (which is just a grass plane). [INSERT IMAGE HERE - NorseTiles.png] The colliders always met in the center of the
			tile. 
			Mayan - Being our second theme, interior and designed to be claustrophobic (norse had wide space) we decided to try to
			skip the directional light. As a result we tried to fake ambient occlusion in the corners of the room and built the zone out of
			floor tiles which had a world position texture and then placed walls on top of that. The new issue we ran into is the classical
			ARPG one, walls blocking a non-rotating camera. As a result we set each wall up with a stub which indicated a wall but was very
			low, and a high section which I could then disable. 
			Watcher - The challenge for our third biome was trying to create an interior that felt very different from Mayan. We opted for 
			not using world position textures for the floors, this allowed me to set up more patterns in the floor with stone tiles of different 
			sizes. [INSERT IMAGE HERE - WatcherFlooring2.png]. Unfortunately work stopped before we got to finish the biome (or game for that matter).
		Bosses & special zones 
		Macros & tools - For this project I set up over 40 custom tools. Most of them related to assembling the the
		visual zone, such as snapping, rotating based on object type automatic replacements based on themes, controlled object randomization.
		Other tools were for navmesh setups, walkable mesh setup, zone/dungeon data setup (including batch processing) and error reporting among other things.
		[INSERT IMAGE HERE - MythsTools3.png]
		With the use of a macro keyboard and scripts the time to set up a zone (minus paper design) went from around a day to under an hour (including decoration) for the first draft. 
		[INSERT ZONE BUILDING VIDEO HERE]   
			Dungeon graph - Insert information about dungeon graph and where I would have liked to take the project. Also write a few lines about Variations based on theme decided in the graph and the micro variations here.
Result - While I unfortunately never got to finish the game there was plenty of challenges along the way and many learnings. 